https://www.indeed.com/career-advice/interviewing/handle-conflict-in-workplace
https://www.indeed.com/hire/c/info/conflict-management-three-examples-for-the-workplace
https://theinterviewguys.com/how-do-you-handle-conflict/

How do you deal with conflict?
To answer this question successfully, assure your interviewer that you are a good listener who can accept opposing views without getting upset.
You could also mention how conflict resolution should take place in a private space. Aim to provide an example if possible.


Example: “I actively adjust my attitude during a conflict situation. This means that I strive to listen to the other person’s point of view without
becoming defensive. I also attempt to move the confrontation to a private space to avoid further complications.”

Can you recall a time of conflict with a coworker?
Behavioral questions require you to describe how you acted in a real-life situation. Prospective employers ask this type of question to learn more about your personality. 
Past behavior often indicates how you would react in comparable future situations, so be sure to provide an example you are proud of or to explain the lessons you took away
from the experience. It is important to emphasize the resolution that took place, as opposed to dwelling on the conflict itself.
How to manage conflicts at work
Here are some tips to help you manage conflict:
 

Take immediate action: Resolving conflicts as soon as possible minimizes tension and keeps other employees out of disagreement. Many miscommunications are resolved with simple,
transparent discussion.
Frame the discussion positively: Referring to meetings as “conflict resolution” can create unnecessary tension. Instead, frame the meeting with employees as a “brainstorming” 
discussion or a “chat session” or simply say you’d like to get opinions on the matter. 
Focus on the issue, not the person: Encourage parties to avoid personal attacks and focus on problem-solving. 
Practice active listening: Active listening is about listening to each speaker and trying to understand their message without interruption. The best way to accomplish this
is to ask open-ended questions that encourage parties to speak instead of asking questions that yield “yes” or “no.” If the discussion becomes heated, ask each party to clarify 
how work processes were impacted by the situation or what they need to do their jobs. Restate what you heard in your own words. Then, ask for opinions and encourage consensus 
on a solution.

The STAR approach may prove helpful when answering this type of question. This acronym stands for:

Situation: Briefly explain the issue you were dealing with in a positive, constructive way.
Task: Describe your role in the situation.
Action: Discuss what you did to resolve or address the situation.
Result: Emphasize what you learned and how your actions had a positive outcome.
Example: “I was working as a project manager on an IT project, and one technician was constantly late finishing tasks. When I approached him about it, he reacted defensively. 
I kept calm and acknowledged that the deadlines were challenging and asked how I could assist him in improving his performance. He calmed down and told me that he was involved
in another project where he had to do tasks that were not in his job description. After a meeting with the other project manager, we came to a resolution that alleviated the
technician’s workload. For the remainder of the project, the technician delivered great work.”

Quick question for you: how do you handle conflict?
Are you someone who avoids conflict at all costs?
Are you someone who pretends it’s not there and just ignores it?
Maybe you’re someone who is more “go with the flow” and more accommodating?
Perhaps you’re someone who uses conflict as a way to jumpstart compromise and collaboration?

Hiring managers are looking for someone they know will be able to rise to the occasion and do their job regardless of what’s going on around them, and a big part of that is how you handle conflict in the workspace.


They’re also looking to see how well you’ll fit into the culture of the company and how well you’ll mesh with your fellow employees.

But be aware, this is one of those trick questions that really has no absolutely right answer and what a hiring manager is looking for can vary wildly between jobs.

Some hiring managers want someone who is willing to voice their opinion and stand up for what they think is right. Others want an employee who is more geared towards quick conflict resolution and compromise. 
Regardless of what the employer is looking for, what’s truly important is how you answer the question.

A hiring manager can tell a lot about your personality based on how you answer this question, which is why you want to avoid any responses that align with any of these ‘problem’ people:

Confrontational Carl: While standing up for what you think is right is a noble trait, fighting tooth and nail because you’re unwilling to compromise or admit you may not be right isn’t, especially if your default is to become angry and lash out. Confrontational Carl can’t admit he’s wrong and will stubbornly argue his point, becoming increasingly angry.

Dissin’ Debbie: Never make work conflict personal. Turning a disagreement about a professional situation into a personal attack is never the right way to handle any conflict. Keep in mind you want to always focus on the situation, not on personalities.

Dissin’ Debbie is just the opposite. She’s the kind of person who can take a simple disagreement about what type of toner the printer takes and turn it into a brutal dissection of your fashion sense, your taste in men, and your relationship with your parents.

Wallbuilder Wally: This isn’t just about leaving the confrontation physically, but mentally as well. Keeping an open mind and clearly listening to both sides is the mark of a true leader. You never know, you might just learn something or (gasp!) change your mind!

Wallbuilder Wally might be standing in front of you, but you can tell just by looking in his eyes, that he’s a million miles away. He might as well have his fingers in his ears.

Festering Frank: While dealing with conflict can be difficult, it’s much better to handle it as soon as it arises rather than letting it sit and fester.


Festering Frank is just the opposite and this personality type has the potential to be the most dangerous. Festering Frank takes any sort of conflict and internalizes it, holding onto it like a precious little seed of anger. He feeds and waters it, letting it grow and grow.

From the outside, Festering Frank looks fine, but inside, he’s a seething mass of anger ready to boil over at a moment’s notice, and often triggered by something completely unrelated.

Playground Pete: I’m sure this is something that you’re probably already aware of, and I truly hope I’m preaching to the choir when I say this but regardless of the conflict, violence is never the answer. Never, ever, ever, ever.

Playground Pete never got that memo so his answer to any conflict is “Let’s take this outside and solve it man-to-man.” Not only is this individual absolutely not a candidate any hiring manager would want working for them, but he’s also a huge potential liability. Threats that amount to assault and battery are a really quick way to end just about any interview.


