
diversity doesn’t just refer to race and gender, but also encompasses categories such as age, sexual orientation, religion, military service, people with disabilities, 
and other traits and experiences that are reflected in a company’s workforce.

Diversity, equity, and inclusion are three very important topics to me. I believe that diversity means representation across a wide range of traits, backgrounds, and experiences. 
When we can connect and engage with coworkers with different perspectives than our own, we can more successfully achieve our overall goals. Inclusion refers to a sense of belonging
in any environment. For a company to really achieve the benefits of diversity, it has to work to be inclusive in recruiting, hiring, retention, and promotions. Employees in inclusive
workplaces feel more comfortable sharing their unique ideas and perspectives because they can sense that their differences are genuinely respected and appreciated.

“Finally, equity is important for making sure that every employee’s voice is included in the decision-making process, that everyone feels fairly compensated for their work, and that 
everyone has access to the same opportunities. It’s very important to me that everyone I work with feels safe, accepted, and valued and has an equal opportunity to grow and succeed. 
Together, the values of diversity, equity, and inclusion help create a workplace culture that drives the business forward

We all know by now that biases are all around us. Unfortunately, they can get in the way of even the most well-intentioned hiring team.
In order to minimize bias in my hiring process, I begin by ensuring that the job opening gets broadcast to as many diverse networks as possible.
This helps bring in a diverse range of candidates from the start. Then, I make sure to focus on each candidate’s skills and abilities. To the extent possible,
I ignore gaps in their career history, which might reflect time off to care for children and disadvantage women. I also ignore college pedigree, which is typically
unrelated to performance but can disadvantage people of color. Finally, I use a structured interview process where I make sure to ask every candidate the same questions
so that I’m able to evaluate them on the same set of criteria.

“In my last role, using these strategies over the course of several years allowed me to grow the most diverse department in the organization and it really boosted our 
creativity and performance as a team. We simply did better work with more backgrounds and perspectives represented, exceeding our goals every quarter. Other hiring managers
started asking about what I was doing differently in the hiring process and I was more than happy to share what had worked for me and brainstorm additional ways to eliminate
biases in hiring across the company.”


“Diverse teams drive innovative solutions precisely because they can be challenging. By bringing diverse perspectives to the table, you get more ideas, but also more people 
pointing out holes in ideas. The debate that can come with differing perspectives pushes everyone to think and work harder. That is one of the most challenging aspects of 
working in a diverse environment, but it’s a challenge I embrace. For example, if I notice that we’ve gotten to a solution fairly easily but that we haven’t heard from 
someone on the team, I’ll ask that person to weigh in on the solution. I’ve found that on many occasions, inviting someone into the conversation might mean we’re debating 
an issue longer, but it also means that we end up with a stronger solution.”
