

Create an open and empowering culture. 

  ‘Exceptionally inclusive managers communicate openly with members of the team, giving them a voice and soliciting their feedback. 
  As a result they create cultures defined by transparency, honesty and trust. Through this culture, these managers empower people to make decisions, 
  and employees feel they have greater ownership their work. This finding is consistent with Catalyst research that shows inclusive managers tend to 
  ‘emphasize‘ traits like empowering their employees and humility. One manager said that at Pinterest, everybody is an owner. I’m doing a disservice if 
  I’m not providing a way for people to voice their thought and opinions regularly’ It’s important to consistently find ways to empower people to take 
  ownership and responsibility.’

Lead by example. 
   Exceptionally inclusive managers not only communicate an inclusive culture, but they live the norms they seek to instill on their team. For example, 
   they communicate their own mistakes, and are open and transparent with their team, encouraging their employees to do the same. For instance, when 
   a manager talks about a mistake they’ve made and what they’ve learned from it, then their team is more likely to communicate, rather than cover up 
   their own mistakes. One manager told us, I share my own experiences with the company talk about getting projects that I didn’t like, or found tedious
   or not motivating, that still solved a big problem.’

Distribute work with team input. 
   Exceptionally inclusive managers see work distribution as a collaborative process between the manager and team member. They give people the opportunity 
   to work on projects they’re particularly interested in, and make sure people have stretch assignments. In order to do this effectively, they solicit input 
   from people before distributing assignments. One manager said: ‘We put people in places in which they are excited about the work they are doing. We work 
   hard to make sure that they like the business they are working on, industries, some level of passion interest, or growth opportunity. It’s a pretty 
   collaborative process.’

Make time for connecting. 
   Exceptionally inclusive managers make time for structured socializing with their teams. Specifically, they hold frequent, structured team-building events, 
   such as one-on-one lunches, happy hour, or offsites. ‘Research‘ shows that this type of structured socializing leads to more organizational trust and sense 
   of belonging, especially for people who are underrepresented in an organization.

Put in time to give support. 
   If a team member is struggling, exceptionally inclusive managers provide additional support. They may assign a peer mentor, or offer extra time personally 
   to guide their colleague. One manager discussed how they respond when someone is struggling: I give more mentoring in my one on one meetings. And I’ll give 
   additional meetings to go through particular preparation for a deliverable or presentation. Also I have the employees’ peers serve as mentors as well. I 
   really try to step up the support when someone is struggling.’
