
Project prioritization is where you:

align your projects with your strategy
quantify which projects add value and which don’t
balance the volume of projects you take on with you capability to deliver those projects
focus your whole project delivery team on business benefits
In plain English, prioritization is a process where you work out which projects are the most important so that you can focus your resources on successfully delivering those value-added projects.

"My job has multiple conflicting priorities where it can be difficult to know what is most important and urgent. My boss and I worked out an important/urgent scale for 
rating tasks so that it is clear what takes the highest priority. If something is both important and urgent, it gets highest priority. Important but not urgent is next 
and urgent but not important is next, then not important and not urgent is last. My boss knows the rating system and even codes request as IU, INU, UNI and NINU when 
sending them to me. As a result, my overall productivity in the past year has gone up considerably as benchmarked against prior to using our prioritization rating system…"


factors considered:
urgency
importance(ROI)
any historical learnings? existing solutions/tools to leverage
does it have to be done by our team? or should be handled by other teams 
dependency on other projects
implementation complexcity
how many people/teams involved
who are key stakeholders
decision making process
one time task or repeating
can it be delegated or not


one recent example is:  many projects all related to queue strategy changes, to have holistic views, I consolidated all project ideas into one list then led discuss with
with cross functional teams, tech/DS/Product/ops to prioritize them, to make collective decisions.
1: experimented and estimated business impact ROI or not? how important they are? are they aligned with org OKR?
2: how urgent they are?  how soon needs to be done, key timelines?
3: nice to do? or have to do?
KTLO or startegic/long term investment or tactical/short term fix
4: product area? any existing solutions? historical learnings? 
5: which teams are involved/impacted? size of efforts from each team? 
6: project dependency? pre-requisite of projects?
7: one time task or recurring tasks that can be automated?
8: any projects can be consolidated or deleted?
9: project scopes
based on above factors, I was able to come up with the right priority/stack ranking and reached consensus with key stakeholders to make sure we work on the right things in the right order
and delivered them on time based on our limited resources.




